# Framework for Multi-Agent Simulation of User Behavior in E-Commerce Sites

E-commerce websites rely heavily on summarizing and analyzing the behavior of customers, trying to influence user actions towards the optimization of success metrics such as CTR (Click through Rate), CPC (Cost per Conversion), Basket and Lifetime Value and User Engagement. Data mining and machine learning techniques have been applied as tools of personal service in websites, making great significance in Internet marketing activities.

The successful experimentation and application of such techniques is highly dependent on the methods of online and offline evaluation. Measuring how much certain actions influence the user behavior is particularly tricky by just relying on historical data, because the causality aspects of the system are not taken into consideration. For example, a user might have an affinity towards sports, but because historically he was never exposed to recommendations in that category, one cannot predict his behavior when presented with such suggestion (it's hard to extrapolate patterns that never occurred before). Data scientists would usually have to resort to online techniques, such as A/B testing or multi-armed bandit optimization, to consider new areas of the hypothesis space, and therefore incurring into the operational cost of such exploration. Most of the cases, however, marketing is not a pure blank slate. There exists a body of knowledge of known mass behaviour, personas and their affinities, that have been (and still are) collected through (meta-)studies.

The goal of this dissertation is to allow the usage of such "a priori" knowledge in a bayesian setting, by regarding users as agents that simulate personas interacting on an e-commerce site and react to stimuli that influence their choices and actions. Hence we propose to create a framework that allows the construction of simulators of user activity in e-commerce sites, enabling the evaluation of "what-if" scenarios.
